**License Agreement for the Tau Language Framework**

The Tau Language Framework (the “Product,” including all associated files) is protected by IDNI AG legal rights, including intellectual property rights, which may be covered by patents and/or copyrights. IDNI AG retains all of its intellectual property rights, but grants permission to use the Product for free for both commercial and non-commercial usage in the following instances (the "Tau Net Related Instances"):
  1. for developing and deploying applications, smart contracts, and/or blockchain specifications solely for deployment and execution over the Tau Net blockchain;
  2. for the sole purpose of integrating applications with the Tau Net blockchain; and
  3. as part of running the aforementioned Tau Net blockchain client software.

The Tau Net blockchain (including its testnets) is a separate product deployed by IDNI AG, and utilizes the Product.

IDNI AG further grants permission to use the Product for free in the following additional instances (the "Additional Instances"): educational use, research purposes, non-commercial use, and time-limited (30 days) internal evaluation.  Software created within the scope of the Tau Net Related Instances and Additional Instances are free to be licensed and distributed under the terms of their creator(s).  The Additional Instances do not include any instance where the Product or portions thereof is used to build and/or run software or hardware of any kind for profit or commercial usage.

When software is executed using the Product, that usage is subject to this license. The Product’s installer may automatically download the Product from its official distribution channels and install it, subject to the condition that this license is presented to and agreed by the end-user.

The Additional Instances and Tau Net Related Instances do not include any instance where the Product or portions thereof is redistributed to third parties.

Any use of the Product outside the scope of the listed Additional Instances and Tau Net Related Instances requires an additional license for use.  To request an additional license for the Product and/or any IDNI AG component thereof, contact IDNI AG.

Usage, installation, and/or download of the Product constitutes acceptance of the terms of this license.  The terms of this license are subject to modification by IDNI AG at its sole discretion, and continued usage of the Product after modification of the license terms constitutes acceptance of the modified terms. Free usage of the Product in the context of the Tau Net blockchain applies to the Product in its complete form according to the license it was shipped with, and you may continue using that version for free according to that license.

Any person agreeing to this license on behalf of an entity represents having authority to accept the terms of this license agreement on behalf of the entity.

**§ 1 The Tau Language Framework.**  The Product consists of a set of materials published by IDNI AG as part of the Tau Language Framework, which may include executable files in machine code, data files, source code, object code, link libraries, utility programs, project files, scripts related to the software listed above, and related documentation associated with the Tau Language Framework.

**§ 2 Grant of license.**  For usage of the Product that is permitted for free, IDNI AG grants you a personal, non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license without fees to install, execute, and use the Product.

The Product is licensed, not sold.

IDNI AG reserves all rights not expressly granted in this license.

**§ 3 Contributions to the Tau Language Framework.**  You are entitled to propose new code, documentation, or any other materials (a "Contribution"), via the public code repositories of the Product. In such cases, you transfer to IDNI AG all rights, title, and interest associated with the Contribution. Such contributed materials are subject to this license agreement as if they were created by IDNI AG.

**§ 4 Termination.** The Agreement is effective from the time you access the Product and remains effective until terminated. Your rights under this Agreement terminate immediately without notice from IDNI AG if you materially breach any terms of this agreement or take any action against IDNI AG’s rights to the Product.  IDNI AG may terminate this Agreement immediately should any part of the Product become the subject of a claim of intellectual property infringement or trade secret misappropriation. IDNI AG declares that it is not aware of any such infringement or misappropriation. You can terminate this agreement at any time for any reason.  Upon termination, you will cease use of and destroy all copies of the Product under your control and confirm compliance in writing to IDNI AG. Neither termination of this Agreement nor any deletion or removal of the Product shall limit any obligations you may have to IDNI AG, or any rights and/or remedies that IDNI AG may have with respect to any past or future infringing use of the Product (including, but not limited to, any use of the Product outside the scope of the license provided in this Agreement).  Upon termination of this agreement, all provisions relating to retention of all rights by IDNI AG, indemnifications, disclaimers, definitions, and all of your limits, restrictions, and obligations under this agreement, continue to apply.

**§ 5 Disclaimer of Warranty.**  IDNI AG provides the Product “as is,” without warranty of any kind, either express or implied.  IDNI AG specifically disclaims any expressed or implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, or non-infringement.  You assume the entire risk as to the quality and performance of the Product.  If the Product is defective in any way, you assume all resulting costs including servicing, repair, or correction.

**§ 6 Limitation of Liability.** In no event will IDNI AG or any personnel associated with IDNI AG be liable for any lost revenue, profit, data, or data use, or for special, indirect, consequential, incidental, or punitive damages, regardless of the cause of loss or theory of liability, arising out of or related to the use of or inability to use the Product.  In no event will IDNI AG or any personnel associated with IDNI AG be liable for third party claims based on your use of the Product.  You agree to indemnify IDNI AG and personnel associated with IDNI AG for any claims brought by third parties arising from your use of the Product.  In no event will IDNI AG’s total liability and/or refund to you, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), or otherwise, exceed the USD value of the payment by you for the Product at the time of payment.

**§ 7 Separately Licensed Technology.**  The Product may contain or require the use of third party and/or separately licensed technology that is provided with the Product. Such technology will be licensed to you under separate license terms specified in the Product’s documentation, readmes, or notice files. Your rights to use the third party and/or separately licensed technology are not restricted in any way by this Agreement.

**§ 8 Relevant Laws, Regulations, and Sanctions.**  Government laws, regulations, and/or legal sanctions (including export laws) may apply to the Product. You agree that such laws, regulations, and/or legal sanctions (collectively the “Rules”) govern your use of the Product (including technical data) provided under this Agreement, and you agree to comply with all such Rules (including “deemed export” and “deemed re-export” regulations). You agree that no data, information, and/or Product (or direct product thereof) will be exported, directly or indirectly, in violation of these Rules, or will be used for any purpose prohibited by these Rules including, without limitation, nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons proliferation, or development of missile technology.  To the extent that any of the Rules prohibits granting a license to you, no license is granted.

**§ 9 Government End Users.**  For any end user using the Product on behalf of a governmental entity, the Product is “commercial computer software” pursuant to relevant applicable regulations, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation and agency-specific supplemental regulations for the U.S. government. Therefore, use, duplication, disclosure, modification, and adaptation of the programs, including any operating system, integrated software, any programs installed on the hardware, and/or documentation, shall be subject to license terms and license restrictions applicable to the programs.  No other rights are granted to the governmental entity.

**§ 10 Miscellaneous.** This Agreement is the entire agreement between you and IDNI AG relating to its subject matter.  It supersedes all prior or contemporaneous oral or written communications, proposals, representations, and warranties, and prevails over any conflicting or additional terms of any quote, order, acknowledgment, or other communication between the parties relating to its subject matter.  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, this Agreement will remain in effect with the provision omitted, unless omission would frustrate the intent of the parties, in which case this Agreement will immediately terminate.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of Liechtenstein, and you agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts of Liechtenstein in any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement.  You agree to pay within 30 days of written notification any fees applicable to your unlicensed use of the Product.  If a legal action or proceeding is commenced in connection with the enforcement of this Agreement, IDNI AG shall be entitled to its costs and attorneys’ fees actually incurred in connection with such action or proceeding if IDNI AG prevails.
